# Batch Geocode Addresses

Gecocode a vector of addresses in batches.

## Usage

``` r
geocode_addresses(
  single_line = NULL,
  address = NULL,
  address2 = NULL,
  address3 = NULL,
  neighborhood = NULL,
  city = NULL,
  subregion = NULL,
  region = NULL,
  postal = NULL,
  postal_ext = NULL,
  country_code = NULL,
  location = NULL,
  search_extent = NULL,
  category = NULL,
  crs = NULL,
  max_locations = NULL,
  for_storage = FALSE,
  match_out_of_range = NULL,
  location_type = NULL,
  lang_code = NULL,
  source_country = NULL,
  preferred_label_values = NULL,
  batch_size = NULL,
  geocoder = default_geocoder(),
  token = arc_token(),
  .progress = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- single_line:

  a character vector of addresses to geocode. If provided other
  `address` fields cannot be used. If `address` is not provided,
  `single_line` must be.

- address:

  a character vector of the first part of a street address. Typically
  used for the street name and house number. But can also be a place or
  building name. If `single_line` is not provided, `address` must be.

- address2:

  a character vector of the second part of a street address. Typically
  includes a house number, sub-unit, street, building, or place name.
  Optional.

- address3:

  a character vector of the third part of an address. Optional.

- neighborhood:

  a character vector of the smallest administrative division associated
  with an address. Typically, a neighborhood or a section of a larger
  populated place. Optional.

- city:

  a character vector of the next largest administrative division
  associated with an address, typically, a city or municipality. A city
  is a subdivision of a subregion or a region. Optional.

- subregion:

  a character vector of the next largest administrative division
  associated with an address. Depending on the country, a subregion can
  represent a county, state, or province. Optional.

- region:

  a character vector of the largest administrative division associated
  with an address, typically, a state or province. Optional.

- postal:

  a character vector of the standard postal code for an address,
  typically, a three– to six-digit alphanumeric code. Optional.

- postal_ext:

  a character vector of the postal code extension, such as the United
  States Postal Service ZIP+4 code, provides finer resolution or higher
  accuracy when also passing postal. Optional.

- country_code:

  default `NULL.` An ISO 3166 country code. See
  [`iso_3166_codes()`](https://developers.arcgis.com/r-bridge/api-reference/arcgisgeocode/reference/iso_3166_codes.md)
  for valid ISO codes. Optional.

- location:

  an `sfc_POINT` object that centers the search. Optional.

- search_extent:

  an object of class `bbox` that limits the search area. This is
  especially useful for applications in which a user will search for
  places and addresses within the current map extent. Optional.

- category:

  a scalar character. Place or address type that can be used to filter
  suggest results. Optional.

- crs:

  the CRS of the returned geometries. Passed to
  [`sf::st_crs()`](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/reference/st_crs.html).
  Ignored if `locations` is not an `sfc_POINT` object.

- max_locations:

  the maximum number of results to return. The default is 15 with a
  maximum of 50. Optional.

- for_storage:

  default `FALSE`. Whether or not the results will be saved for long
  term storage.

- match_out_of_range:

  set to `TRUE` by service by default. Matches locations Optional.

- location_type:

  default `"rooftop"`. Must be one of `"rooftop"` or `"street"`.
  Optional.

- lang_code:

  default `NULL`. An ISO 3166 country code. See
  [`iso_3166_codes()`](https://developers.arcgis.com/r-bridge/api-reference/arcgisgeocode/reference/iso_3166_codes.md)
  for valid ISO codes. Optional.

- source_country:

  default `NULL`. An ISO 3166 country code. See
  [`iso_3166_codes()`](https://developers.arcgis.com/r-bridge/api-reference/arcgisgeocode/reference/iso_3166_codes.md)
  for valid ISO codes. Optional.

- preferred_label_values:

  default NULL. Must be one of `"postalCity"` or `"localCity"`.
  Optional.

- batch_size:

  the number of addresses to geocode per request. Uses the suggested
  batch size property of the `geocoder`.

- geocoder:

  default
  [`default_geocoder()`](https://developers.arcgis.com/r-bridge/api-reference/arcgisgeocode/reference/list_geocoders.md).

- token:

  an object of class `httr2_token` as generated by
  [`auth_code()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/arcgisutils/man/auth.html) or
  related function

- .progress:

  default `TRUE`. Whether a progress bar should be provided.

## Value

an `sf` object

## Details

Addresses are partitioned into batches of up to `batch_size` elements.
The batches are then sent to the geocoding service in parallel using
[`httr2::req_perform_parallel()`](https://httr2.r-lib.org/reference/req_perform_parallel.html).
The JSON responses are then processed using Rust and returned as an sf
object.

Utilizes the
[`/geocodeAddresses`](https://developers.arcgis.com/rest/geocode/api-reference/geocoding-geocode-addresses.htm)
endpoint.

## Examples

``` r
# Example dataset from the Urban Institute
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
fp <- paste0(
  "https://urban-data-catalog.s3.amazonaws.com/",
  "drupal-root-live/2020/02/25/geocoding_test_data.csv"
)
to_geocode <- read.csv(fp)
geocode_addresses(
  address = to_geocode$address,
  city = to_geocode$city,
  region = to_geocode$state,
  postal = to_geocode$zip
)
} # }
```
